#base
I caught it at last.
This little morphling has been lurking around my base for a while now.

It doesn't seem hostile, but... I don't quite know what to do with it either.
Should I try and feed it?
#good
So it evolved! Looks vaguely anthropomorphic, actually.

Maybe it tried to imitate me in its own way.
It's strangely endearing.
#bad
Huh, it changed! The shape is closer to animalistic now.

I sense some wariness from the morpling. Well, no wonder.
Maybe it's for the better that it doesn't grow trusting people too much.
#good2
It evolved again! And it looks even more human now!
But this is problematic in its own way.

Now I won't be able to just... toss it into the wild, will I.
Is there a way to make it enter human society then?
#neutral
Another transformation! 
It looks well-balanced in terms of strength and empathy.

I think it's clearly not a pet anymore. What, then?
A potential ally to humanity? What's left of it, anyways...
#bad2
Another breakthrough - for now, metaphorical.
It's sturdy and angry enough to literally break through the dome.

I just hope it can fend for itself out there...
And, ideally, remember I gave it a hand once.
#healer
The Healer.
As ever eager to learn, explore and help in return.

His constant fascination with this broken, hopeless world is contagious.
Maybe we both became something else. Something more.

Alive, truly.
#guard
The Guardian.
Loyal to a fault and ready to endure any damage for the sake of others.

Maybe we still have hope in all this rebuilding civilization venture.
Ahh... I almost forgot I once wished for it with all my heart.

Keep us alive, friend.
#soldier
The Soldier.
A perfect instrument, a deadly weapon.

Will it join us in our campaing to reclaim the world?
Was it ever our goal at all?

For now, we'll just focus on staying alive.
#predator
The Predator. 
Strong, fast and mistrustful.  Unloving, as expected.
It will definitely survive the outer world now.

Go on. You're on your own in this mess now.
Stay alive.
#death_larva
Yeah, I see. I see. It died. 
Too bad, but... the resources are scarce.

And I also need to survive.
#death
No no no... you're dead? You aren't, right? 
This shitty place we're bound to live in...

I'm so sorry.
#evo_fail
Ah... what went wrong?
Did it not have enough raw materials to evolve?

If only I...
#escape
Wait, come back! You're not ready yet!
You should have stayed a little more, dammit.

...or perhaps I should've treated you better.